In the last lecture you've learned the basics of how to configure e-mails sending through lateral application.
You should also have a mail drop account set up or if you prefer to use any other options you are free
to do so.
I've just shown you in the last lecture what are the possible drivers but for development and just learning.
I highly recommend using made trap now since we have everything set up we are ready to generate a first
class that we will use to send an email.
So we do that using artisan command.
There is a command for everything so the command itself is make mail and we'll call it comment post
at.
You can see I've made create it successfully command.
And now if you will take a look at your app namespace there is new folder called mail and this is where
all the classes related to sending emails are being stored.
So this is our class.
So what you should know about emails in LA Evo is that every email or every type of email that you would
like to send is a separate class that will extend the base line level mail class.
So it has a constructor we'll get to that in a moment but generally the most important thing about email
or each separate type of email is the build method where you configure how this should be rendered.
So even a lot of all by default calls this view method which is similar to how it works inside controllers.
But this is doing something else.
It is just saying which view or blade view specifically we should use to render the contents of our
email.
So obviously we do not have the view dot name yet.
So we'll create one.
So let's go ahead and create a template for this particular comment post it type of email so let's go
ahead and create the missing view for our email.
We'll do that inside the resources of use folder but first we need to create a new namespace specifically
for emails.
So let's call it emails.
Now we can also add a sub namespace for posts because this will only relate to the comments that are
being posted on our particular blog post.
So there is posts and the template name might be comments that so comment that blade peach P.
This will create an empty blade template but now we can immediately configure inside this class.
What is the template name.
So this is emails posts comment that so as usual with larval blade views the same as we do inside controllers.
We use the relative directory to the resources views so you can see this is emails and instead of the
slash they note denoting the directory structure we are using delta so nothing new to learn here.
Now another important thing is how do we pass any data to this actual male level class.
So here in this class any property that is public will be available to the view under the same name.
So if this is about a comment that is being posted let's immediately add public comment and now everything
that will be stored on this property on them on this instance of the comment posted.
Class will be available under the same name inside their view for the email so we know actually what
are the possible options we might read from that comment but first also we need to know how do we actually
set this public comment so we can do that using constructor so we can pass on comment object.
So let's do that we can even typing that as our up comment.
So make sure you add the proper import.
Call it comment and inside the constructor will just assign this whatever is passed through that constructor
to this public comment property on this comment post that object like that.
Now let's don't worry right now how we will pass this comment to the comment posted that and how we
will even create this comment posted object.
Now let's focus on how we will construct the actual email.
So this will happen inside the build method and what we are doing right now is we are specifying which
larval blade view we should be using.
So you can see that the first option of this method is the actual view name then optionally you can
specify the second one as an array and pass some additional data.
So this will just create variables that will be available inside this very view with the name that you
give to an R a key and value would be this value that will be available.
But for us having this public comment is enough.
Additionally every method that you will call on the instance of a male object actually returns this
very object so you can change them.
For example you might want to specify from whom this email should be sent specifically for this particular
type of email.
The comment posted as you see this method accepts an address you may address us first argument and the
name of the sender as the second one so you can say something like mean larval dots test
and other mean so you will only use that if you do not want to send emails from the default from others
that is been configured inside the mail BHP file.
You might remember that from the last lecture.
So obviously for most of the inmates you probably would like to send them from one specific email but
this is useful if you would like to have some emails that are sent let's say to do some stuff of your
application to some administrators and then others you might send to customers.
So this is also configurable and you can you can see you chain all those method calls because all of
them return actual instance of this same very object.
So we won't actually configure this here but let's see another interesting option which is subject so
subject of the email it is definitely something you should have unique if you want specify are subject
for a class for a mid-level class what you will get by default is email with this subject comment post
that so a lot of it will just separate all those parts of the common case using spaces and something
like that will be used as the subject so definitely you might want to configure that.
So let's do the first thing we will configure subject of course if you are wondering about things like
file attachment we will cover that in the next lecture.
So just stay tuned.
Now we can use something like comment was posted on your blog post and then pass it as a subject using
subject method.
But since we already have our comment in stance and this we assume because we will only send this email
when a comment is posted on a blog post we can safely assume that this is actually a comment on a blog
post so we can read what is the title of the blog post.
So let's generate the subject differently.
We can say comment.
Was posted on your and here will actual you read the title of the blog post so we have access to the
comment which is this comment.
Now you know that the comment has this commendable which will read all the related entity.
Well the related entity that might be blog posts or a user in our case we know that this is the blog
post.
In this case and we know that it has a title property.
So basically what we will generate now is the subject of the email it would be that comment was posted
on your title of the blog post and then we can additionally add blog post.
So we are already using that data that was passed here
in this lecture we've learned that for every email that we will be sending or every type of email we
should create a class that extends Malabo.
We've learned that older public properties of this class will be available inside the view.
We've seen how to create are specific blade template for one specific email how to use it inside the
mid-level class and we've already seen how we will pass any data to this particular class using constructor
and where then we immediately seen how we can create a subject how to configure that you may others
from which this email was sent.
And we've also had a dynamic subject where we specified to which blog post something was added.
So let's call it a day.
And in the next lecture we'll actually work on the actual view everything that would be rendered inside
the email and we will also send it.